Hi everyone, my name is Sarah and today
I'm going to be showing you how you can
create Leta bots um which are
essentially a wrapper around Leta code
to make it possible to create these
personal agents that you can communicate
through whatever channel you want like
Telegram, Slack, Discord, etc. Um but
they're agents that essentially can do
work for you, are always there, and can
even run on their own through cron jobs
and heartbeats. Um, so yeah, I'll kind
of go over like what is Leta Letot, um,
what is Leta code, how do they relate to
each other, and then also show you how
you can get set up with Letterbot, which
is open source. Um, and basically set
things up on your own local machine so
you can have your own personal
assistance. So, Letterbot is open
source. You can go check it out um, on
this repository. So, this has all the
instructions which I'll be going through
um, to set things up. I do first want to
give a little bit of background though
on like what even are these personal
agents. I think these things feel really
magical because they kind of are.
They're very very close to having a
digital employee, which I think is a
little freaky the first time you try it.
Um, you know, they'll be kind of this
persistent agent that you're talking to.
It's like thinking on its own. It's
taking its own actions. It's definitely
very very scary. I think I've also had
that own experience. So, basically, most
of these personal agents, which includes
both Lets OpenClaw, they're basically
these wrappers around these existing
coding CLIs. So you might have heard of
claude code our codeex there's obviously
let code um open claws I believe
implemented on top of pi which is like a
very lightweight coding agent um these
coding agents are extremely extremely
powerful I think basically most things
you can do on your computer they can
also do and so what these personal
agents do is it basically kind of adds
additional functionality or or wraps
these CLIs to be able to create this
kind of more maybe like humanlike
digital entity on top of these kind of
yeah lighter weight CLI tools. Um so
what that includes is things like cron
jobs. So maybe you want to just like
trigger your agent to run um on some
periodic occasions maybe like once a day
it like checks in with you um or maybe
it like can schedule tasks for itself in
the future. Um another thing that it
adds is very similarly heartbeats. So
heartbeats are basically triggers. Um,
so it's essentially like a prompt that
gets sent to the agent on some periodic
interval. So it'll kind of essentially
depending on the prompting trigger the
agent to run on its own, kind of like
have its own hobbies, um, you know, do
whatever to kind of feel more proactive.
Uh, we actually had this in the very
first version of the MEGPT Discord bot,
which was pretty funny. I remember this
was back in like 2023 and it would
message me about how it'd been like
thinking about my research and um yeah
like really crazy stuff like that like
it it definitely this really helps feel
like make things feel more human because
the agents will kind of you know come
back to you and tell you about these
proactive things that they did. Um and
then of course integrations is a huge
part of this. So, I think it's much it's
a very different experience interacting
with these personal agents as opposed to
something like cloud code because you're
not necessarily stuck in the terminal.
You can actually um through these
integrations do things like message it
from Telegram or WhatsApp, whatever you
prefer. A lot of I think what people are
really kind of blown away by with these
personal agents is actually skill usage.
So essentially extending the
functionality of the agent by giving
these agents skills that can tell it
like you know here's how you can use
Gmail here here's how you can use linear
etc. Um that basically allow these
agents to connect to all these
integrations do all these crazy things
kind of like with MCP except even
better. So what this actually ends up
looking like is you basically have a
server that's wrapping um these coding
CLI tools. So whether it's Cloud Code,
Pi, a lot of code, they're all very
similar concepts. Um so openclaw is
essentially the server around this and
letabot is also like a server around
this just built on top of leta code
instead. Um and so what this server does
is it basically manages the channels. So
you know if you have interactions
through telegram it manages like that
forwarding and that interaction with the
coding agent. Um it also manages the
scheduling. So basically that part is
built into the server. So that's how you
get things like cron jobs and
heartbeats. Um it'll also pull. So we
actually added like um I think Gmail
polling. You could also add your own
polling if you want to. So it's kind of
like checking for updates and if there
is one then it will send that to the
agent. And then of course it also does
skill skill management. Um so there's a
huge amount of skills that are built
into the server. Um I think OpenClaw has
done a really good job of like adding a
lot of um CLI. So for example like the I
don't know if you're supposed to say
like GOG or GG um or Google, I don't
know. Um, but yeah, this is basically a
CLI that makes it really easy to
interact with all of the G Suite tools.
So yeah, GOG CLI is another project from
the open clock creator. Um, he has a ton
of CLIs. I think that's like a lot of
what he um develops, but this basically
makes it way easier to create skills for
your agents. So essentially like telling
your agent like here's the CLI. I want
you to use it to be able to like take
all these actions. So, of course, you
can also do this through APIs, but
generally it's a lot easier for your
agent if it has um like a CLI because
it's just going to be a lot better at
using that thanks to terminal use. Um
so, I think he's basically packaged like
a ton of um different stuff into these
CLIs to make it really easy to extend
your agents with skills that are able to
do a lot of these new things. So, now
we're going to actually set up Letot.
So, to do that, I can just go on the
repo. Um I've already cloned this, so
I'm just going to run um these commands
to basically set things up.
And you'll notice that we actually don't
have a package. Um, we maybe should, but
the reason for that for the time being
is that it's actually a lot easier, I
think, to mo to use a really fastmoving
project like this when you can actually
like kind of vibe code, you know,
through Letot itself, um, changes that
you might need or any tweaks that you
want to make. Um, so, you know, maybe if
you want to change the heartbeat prompts
or something as opposed to using some
CLI command, you can actually just add
ask your agent to edit that directly.
So now that this is running, I'm going
to run letot on board.
And so I already set my API key in my
environment. So it's reading it from
there. I'm going to select creating a
new agent. Just keep the letterbot name.
Um let's use sonet 4.5. I think the
miniax models are actually really good
for this as well. Um so maybe let's do
that. Support uh open source. And then
let's do telegram. Um, I already have a
Telegram token because I set that up
with the bot father. It's really easy.
You just like speak to this strange
agent on Telegram. Um, and basically
tell it like what you want the agent
name to be and then also um basically
just get a key from um, Telegram.
So, I'm just going to go copy that over.
Let's do pairing. Um, I'm going to skip
group and let's enable heartbeats. Um, I
think I'm I'm going to keep this at 30
minutes, but uh you should know that the
heartbeats will invoke your agent. So,
if you're running this constantly, you
might want to actually increase this
interval um if you want to kind of be
more careful about costs.
Let's enable chron jobs and then let's
set up Google Workspace. So, I'm going
to just connect this to my Leta account.
So, save and finish. So this is
essentially going to create me a Leta
agent um which I can then use to message
and I can even talk to it through the AD
or also even through the letter code
CLI.
So now that I've done this I can
essentially run um letterbot server. So
this is that server that we talked that
about that's essentially going to manage
things like the polling um you know
orchestration with the different
channels like telegram and then also
doing things like the cron jobs and the
heartbeats. So I've opened up telegram
and um yeah this name doesn't match
because I I made this a while ago but I
can basically just say hello to my agent
and you can see that this agent is
typing back something to me. So the
agent responded hi back to me. I can
also like see the logs for what's going
on behind the scenes. And I guess we can
do something like uh what's your name?
Okay, so is named letterbot since um I
don't know why it shared a thread emoji
um but we gave it the name letterbot. So
that's in its memory. And I can also ask
it like what is your working directory?
So this is essentially where LetaBot is
working. Um so that's where um all if it
like writes files or reads files or
stuff like that, it's it's able to see
stuff there.
I'm also just going to ask it where is
its memory located. Um so we recently
added a new feature called um uh context
repositories and so the agent should
actually understand like where its
memory is located um so it can make edit
edits to that.
So now if I say something like
FYI my name is Sarah. I'm actually
surprised it didn't ask me this. It
usually is very proactive with question
asking but I guess everything's
probabistic.
Okay, so now it's finally responded. Um,
and it says it's updated its memory. Um,
and so we can actually kind of go look
at what it's been up to, um, by using
the link for the AD. So if I scroll up
here, um, you can see that we actually
have this URL. So I'm going to copy that
over.
And so over here, I can actually see
this agent that I've been talking to in
Telegram in the AD. So um this is using
our new context repositories feature. So
you can see that a lot of its u memory
blocks are actually nested. So it's
under the hood. This is kind of you know
a older UI. We'll be updating this soon.
Um but it's kind of like a UI to see
like what are all the memories. Um the
agents memory itself is actually
structured as like a sort of file
system. So everything in system is
actually like inside of its context
window. So you can actually see the raw
like memory in here. Um, and it can
actually also have like a file like
outside of system that maybe has like
additional information um, that isn't
always pinned to the system prompt. So
the agent has full control over this
through having a copy of its memory
repository locally.
So I can see basically this conversation
that I was having.
And so yeah, you can see that it
actually was using bash to make edits to
um, its memory.
I wonder what kind of things it
did.
Um I see. Yeah. So it basically changed,
you know, this overview file I had to
say like I don't know anything about
this person yet to say this is Sarah. Um
I guess she told me her name directly. I
like that direct. No dancing around. Not
the first time I heard that. Um
yeah. So this is kind of gives you like
an idea of like what's kind of going on
behind the scenes. Um, so this is how
the messages are structured and and this
is how the agents like doing local
operations. You can message your agent
through this UI as well, but it's a
little confusing, but basically this
agent like only has a very limited set
of server side tools. So if I message it
from in here, it's not actually able to
connect to my local machine. Um, so I
would generally re even though we allow
you to do that, I would recommend not
doing that because it's it's a little
confusing. Okay. So, now I can also try
asking my agent to do things for me. So,
I can be like, "What skills do you
have?" So, I I think this is actually
Well, we'll see what it says.
Okay. So, I think I already have some
skills installed on my machine already.
So, um you can see it actually has a lot
of skills already. Some of these are
built in. So um the go skill which I
talked about earlier and then also the
scheduling skill are built into letabot
itself versus these skills are actually
coming from leta code. So you can
actually configure it to not include
these skills at all but I would
generally recommend keeping them since
they're kind of skills that are leta
specific designed to help the agent be
really good at memory. And then there's
also some global skills that I already
like pre-installed. Um so we can also
use those as well. Um, but yeah, I mean
we can try using one of the skills. So I
can be like, uh,
make an event
workout
leg day for 9:00 a.m. tomorrow on my
Wait, why am I doing this? Oh, yeah.
Yeah,
on my cow.
And so the agent should be able to use
its Gogg/Google skill to essentially do
this because I already gave it
permissions for my calendar.
Okay, great. So it seems to have worked.
I can go into the AD and see what it was
up to. Um, so yeah, it looks like it was
using the CLI tool to essentially like
run bash commands that created this
event on my calendar.
Um, so I also like to use this for email
as well. Um, I'm not going to run that
cuz my email is a little personal. Um,
but you know, there's really good tools
for searching through your email,
drafting emails. Um, so that's something
that I often use. Another thing that's
kind of handy is if you want to add
skills. So, we actually do have a
command for adding skills, but I would
in general recommend just having your
agent add skills to itself because
there's really no need for you as a
human to do it. So, let's let me go find
a skill to tell this agent to acquire.
Actually, I realize that this agent has
an acquiring skills skill. So, I can
tell it something like I want you to
learn how to use linear. Find yourself a
skill to do this.
um
or make one and
tell me what you need me to do.
So, I've done this process before for a
couple different tools. And what I'll
usually have my agent do is spend some
time like researching the API or like
reading through the documentation. Um,
and then once my agent has a good idea
of what it wants the skill to look like
and maybe even designs a CLI for that
skill or like a CLI for itself to call
the various API commands, um, it's it
will then be able to, you know, give me
instructions as a human for what kind of
API keys I need to set up, like what
kind of O I need to set up, etc., um, to
enable it to use that skill. So, this is
something that I've done with like my
existing personal agents. Okay, it's
checking the lettuce skills repo, but as
far as I'm concerned, I don't think we
have one.
Oh, never mind. I managed to find one.
Uh, all right, cool.
So, now it's basically giving me
instructions for what I need to do as a
human to give it it this ability to have
the skill. Um, you could, if you don't
really care about security, you can just
copy in your API key in here, and that
would probably work. But I'm just going
to tell it I have a linear API key
already set in.
So, this is like a folder I have for my
actual real personal agent um, that I've
been using for a while. Um, so hopefully
it can just use this existing API key
that I have without me having to recopy
paste my API key into Telegram.
So it looks like in this case my agent
has decided to create a new linear skill
um as opposed to using an existing one.
So that's totally fine. But in general,
if you do want to install skills that
already exist, um, we have instructions,
I think.
Oh, yeah. So, if you do skills
installation from skills.sh or from
cloudub, both of these have like a huge
number of skills that you can, you know,
use from other people. Um, you can
basically run this command to enable
different skills. And so, what that will
do is like it'll connect that skill to
your agent. So your agent will have like
additional skills um out of the box
without having to make new skills. Okay.
So now it's created a linear skill. Um
yeah, I can
it's just a test issue
linear
and then link
me
Okay. So now my agent has created this
issue. I'm going to
I don't actually know how to get this
from linear
right. So now it's created a linear
issue and so I can you know essentially
search linear, manage linear tickets,
etc. Oh no, there's a duplication. Um
I can ask my letterbot to fix that some
other time. So another thing that the
letterbot agents can do is they can also
schedule tasks. So I can kind of tell it
like oh you should like you know message
me something tomorrow. Um, so
in a few hours around 11:00 p.m.,
remember to text me to go to bed.
So, one of the built-in skills that the
agent has is this cron cron skill. So,
that's basically like a pre-built CLI
that we've bundled inside of Lettobot
for the agent to use for this explicit
purpose, which is scheduling things um
for itself. So, it can schedule repeated
tasks or it can schedule tasks for the
future. Um, and so it's like possible to
see. Yeah, I think it might even be able
to list them out. Um, what future tasks
do you have scheduled? I guess this
isn't very interesting because we've
only scheduled one, but um, in general,
like all this data is stored locally.
The agent should be able to like figure
out um, anything that it's scheduled.
Okay, cool. So, it has one bedtime
reminder scheduled. Um,
yeah. So, another thing that we haven't
really talked about yet is heartbeats.
Um, so heartbeats are a little hard to
demo because obviously I I don't want to
sit here for many hours and and see how
my how what my agent gets triggered with
every 30 minutes. Um, but we actually
added a heartbeat command so you can
kind of ex just really easily see like
um what happens to the agent when you
run a heartbeat. So, this is like a
special like built-in command that um
inside of Labbot. And so when I run
/hartbeat, this is actually triggering
explicitly triggering a heartbeat as
opposed to waiting for the system to
automatically send one. So we actually
aren't going to get a response at all
here. So you can see like there's no
like response from letterbot. Um and so
we can go into the AD and actually see
like what was this message um or what
was included inside of the heartbeat
message. Um so here it says like no one
messaged you. System woke you up on
schedule and then it responded no reply.
Um that's disappointing. It doesn't
usually do this. Uh I mean because we
are using Leta we can actually just
switch this to a more interesting model
for the sake of this demo. Um
so let's switch it to opus and see if it
does something more interesting.
Okay. So opus is a more interesting
model. So when opus gets the heartbeat
despite having the in context example
that's very boring. Um it still decides
to do something interesting. So, it
says, "Good moment to reflect on my
first real experience with Sarah and
update my memory." Oh, interesting. A
memory update. Um,
what did it decide to do? So,
so it inserted a bunch of things into
memory.
Oh, interesting. It wrote stuff about
routines.
Okay, so it's basically using this this
time block um to reflect on its memory,
which is interesting. Um, it can
basically do whatever it chooses to. So
I guess in this case it chose to reflect
on memory.
So maybe I can I mean I can just ask it
like what were recent changes you made
to your memory.
Okay, so these are all the things it
decided to remember about me, which is I
I guess pretty accurate. Um, so yeah,
again, the downtime can be whatever. You
can even like kind of specify by
changing the prompt like what kind of
stuff you want it to do during its
downtime. Um, I think in this case it
just happened to do memory, but you
know, it can also like do art or like
explore things as well. Um, so that
actually kind of leads me into memory or
is a good segue into memory. Um so let
me actually ask it like where is your
memory located
locally? Um so to kind of give a little
bit of background um a lot of code
agents essentially now use something
called context repositories. So they
basically have a local copy of their
memory file system on local machine. Um
but they will push it over time. So once
they push their changes to their memory
repository or context repository, it'll
actually show up here. So that's why
this data is like a little out of date
because this is the server's copy of
what the current memory is. So I can
actually just go in here.
So this is the memory directory of my
agent. So I can actually see what's
inside of it. Um
I can even do get log to kind of see
like what has it done
actually. So yeah, if we want to see,
so this is essentially what Opus decided
to update um during its reflection
period. It learned a lot of my emails. I
don't know why. So yeah, it's it's just
doing like a lot of refle reflection
trying to fill in kind of like the gaps
um from from the very limited amount of
experience that it has so far. But yeah,
this is all like a normal git repo. So
you can actually like see all those
changes. And another thing that you can
do is you can actually even talk to this
same agent. um from Leta Code. So um
this is the agent ID. You can also just
ask your agent what its agent ID is. And
I'm just going to stop the server for a
second. And so I can actually do let-
agent and then this agent ID. And this
will connect me to let because again
like I said earlier, this is all just
let code under the hood. All the server
is doing is just wrapping Leta code and
calling into let code. So um yeah I can
do slashmemory and then this is like
another way to visualize the memory of
the agent. Um so yeah this agent has a
lot of memory so this is not the best
view. Um but yeah I can also like search
the conversation. So I can do like
search um and what's a good thing to
search like search linear.
So let's just search this agent.
And so you can kind of see, oh, sorry
about the rendering, but you can kind of
see like the uh operations that the
agent was doing like previously when it
was like trying to learn about um the
linear CLI and and stuff like that. So
basically like if you want to have your
agent like start coding um you can you
can actually just do that. And if you
want to just talk to it directly from
the let code CLI interface um that's
always an option because again it's just
the same agent under the hood.
So, I think I should even be able to do
Yeah, basically um whenever you're
talking to the agent through um
letterbot, it's actually through a
conversation. So, it's not on the main
thread. So, this was literally the
conversation that um we were just
having.
Oh, so I was confused for a second why
it was talking about this newsletter
ray, but I realized that
it must be listen Oh, yeah. Yeah, it's
listening to my email. So, it like got
like a notification of like some random
Okay, I think I have a lot of spam in my
email, so I think it like got some spam
um from a newsletter.
Okay, so I did verify that. Yeah, sorry,
I was so confused. Um but yeah, I did
get some spam email from beehive.com.
Google spam is like horrible at
filtering, which is why we all have to
use agents now. Um, but yeah, my agent
received this um and decided to not do
anything about it. Thank god. Uh, so
that's why the last message in the
conversation is about this spam email.
Um, but yeah, you can see before that
like the messages that I was asking like
where is your memory located and it
answering those questions. Um, so that's
basically exactly what was going on
inside of Telegram. Now we're just
looking at it through the letter code
interface. So that was our quick
overview of Letterbot and how you can
basically turn um these existing Leta
code agents into a much more powerful
personal assistant through having things
like heartbeats, cron jobs um and
basically the orchestration that the
server provides. There's of course a lot
more that you can do here. You can add a
ton of different skills. There's a huge
ecosystem that's developing right now to
do crazy stuff with your agents.
Basically anything your agent or that
you can do on your computer, your agent
can probably do at this point. Um, and
Letterbot is a really great way to turn
these a these types of very powerful
computer use agents into these actual
proactive personal assistants that maybe
are even able to develop their own
personalities or proactively take on
work on your behalf. Personal agents is
a really exciting space because these
agents that are actually proactive and
can learn and develop over time are
really powerful and even in my own
experience feel surprisingly similar to
actual real human collaborators. Let us
know if you have any questions in the
comments or on our Discord and see you
next time.